 What the president is saying is: get pregnant, we will raise your child for you, there won t be any consequences, and we will give you education as bonus. It s not a solution. What s the best way to support teen moms? President Jacob Zuma seems to think it s by separating them from their kids and banishing them to an island until they ve completed their education. However, not all South Africans are sold on the idea.Must read, this week On Wednesday it was question time in Parliament and although order ruled in the House there were still some dramatic moments. TL:DR. The short version is that Zuma said only the minister of police could determine if and when he should # paybackthemoney; however, he did promise to withdraw his finger.Don t miss Earlier this week the SABC s Vuyo Mvoko was mugged on camera while waiting to do a live crossing. South Africans sometimes take a bizarre pride in our terrible crime stats, and now we can boast that we re home to the world s most brazen criminals. Ra eesa Pather has some handy tips for all the journos worrying about their personal safety on the mean streets of SA.Zuma s question-dodging kung fu is strongWeekend special We were very excited when Buzzfeed finally picked South Africa for its series featuring Americans eating snacks from other countries. Well, until we actually watched the video, which showed Buzzfeed thinks SA food equals Afrikaans dishes only. Let s throw mopane worms at them! Weekly hangout: #thedress advert The Daily Vox managing editor Faranaaz Parker chatted to The Salvation Army sCarin Holmes and Ireland/Davenport s Wihan Meerholtz about the advert that took social media by storm last week. But did using #thedress meme to highlight domestic abuse have a real-world impact? Watch the video to find out. To receive The Daily Vox s Top of the Vox a weekly round-up of our favourite stories curated by assistant editor Theresa Mallinson direct in your inbox every Friday morning, sign up here; you know you want to! You can find previous editions here. &#8211; Featured image: By Safiyyah Patel.&nbsp;