&nbsp; It s like living under apartheid because of this no children rule. This is the only hostel where kids are not allowed&#8230; No loving mother should ever be separated from her child by force. We have women s and children s rights in South Africa and that is not what they stand for. What must I do now, throw away my child? Women from the Thokoza Hostel in Durban recently won the right to have their children live with them. However, not everyone is happy with the court ruling, and tensions remain high among residents. We hope this important victory isn t soured by anyone suggesting they go live on Robben Island instead.Must-read, this week Last week the shit hit the statue (literally) at UCT, when a student threw human excrement on the statue of Cecil John Rhodes that overlooks campus. Students had differing opinions about the protest, but this week they clearly showed management who s boss. Spare a thought for the workers who had to clean up the mess; however, the broader question of transformation is now firmly on the agenda. Meanwhile, the shit storm has spread to Rhodes University, albeit in a less radical form students having been making placards and videos about slow transformation at the university using the #RhodesSoWhite hashtag.Don t miss DA leader Helen Zille often reminds us that she s an ex-journalist, but in cancelling provincial government subscriptions to the Cape Times her party seems to have forgotten the principles of media freedom. Zille got all defensive about the move on Radio 702 earlier in the week, but then she made it all go away by trolling Eusebius McKaiser. Would someone please just deactivate her Twitter account already.Rhodes must fall! But what then?Weekend special The Daily Vox s very own Pontsho Pilane is part of the Feminist Stokvel, which recently launched its monthly Hair Soir e. It s all about learning to care for your hair naturally and also provides a nurturing space where black women can speak freely about issues affecting them. Keen to join next month? Find out more here.The week ahead Tomorrow is Human Rights Day in commemoration of the Sharpeville and Langa massacres. Check back in over the weekend for special coverage on The Daily Vox. And, later in the week (Tuesday at 1am, if you want to set your alarm clock right now) the Proteas take on either the Kiwis or the Windies in our first cricket World Cup semi-final since 1992. As always, if you have tips on any stories most especially if you plan to throw poo on a colonial symbol do give us a shout.