 To me, and many of my friends, first-year girls are fresh meat. I know that she will be a flame; many other guys want to get with her, but I will be the one with her. It s all about getting the hottest girl so that all the other guys are envious I will be the man! I only savage first years that look great. First year. Orientation week. It s a fun and daunting time for any student. But there s a darker side too. Pontsho Pilane spoke to a senior male student about why he pursues first years, and also found out how senior female students view the practice. #sexistSAMust-read, this week Xenophobia is back in the spotlight, in its most ugly incarnation. On Thursday night, a Somali man was set alight in Braamfischerville, Soweto; while looting and violence against foreigners in Philippi, Cape Town erupted earlier in the week. Let s hope that the government response is better considered than it was in January.Match of the day 408 for 5. That s what the Proteas scored in today s cricket World Cup fixture against the West Indies, ultimately winning the match by a whopping 257 runs. Seems like AB listened to the advice dished out by former Kiwi captain Martin Crowe the skip was clean-shaven this morning and led the batting line-up in a dominating performance. Go Protea Fire, this one is for your fans the South Africans, the Kashmiris, the Bangladeshis, and, most of all, for Kieron.Don t miss Despite the country s massive ARV rollout, the disease is still devastating for those affected. What would you do if you had to choose between keeping your job and attending your clinic check-ups? Zimasa Matiwane spoke to a woman in KZN to find out how she navigates her way through these tough choices.Toon of the week: Mamphela Ramphele: I had a dream Weekend special Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe turned 91 last week. And tomorrow it s this year s big birthday bash. His parties are well known for their lavish feasting this time round we trust there ll be plenty of dancing as well.Weekly hangout: Mmusi Maimane On Tuesday our executive editor Khadija Patel hosted a hangout with the DA Parliamentary leader, who opened up about *that* accent, and what he makes of being called Obama Lite. He also discussed some more important issues like, you know, our broken country . If you missed it, don t stress, there s a video.The week ahead We ll continue to keep you informed about the latest xenophobic attacks and also bring you more about the real-life effects of Budget 2015 on the lives of ordinary South Africans, especially the most impoverished.To receive The Daily Vox s Top of the Vox a weekly round-up of our favourite stories curated by assistant editor Theresa Mallinson direct in your inbox every Friday morning,sign up here; you know you want to! You can find previous editions here. &#8211; Featured image: By Safiyyah Patel.