 #Bringbackthesignal! Before the EFF could get started with its much-anticipated disruption of the State of the Nation Address (Sona), Parliament or the Executive, or even State Security, depending on whose story you believe got in first, by jamming the cellphone signal in the National Assembly. And that was the beginning of the fun and games last night in Cape Town&#8230;Must-read, this week We re pretty sure there was other stuff in the news earlier this week but, frankly, Sona blew it all out of the water. After the initial disruptions, the EFF, predictably, asked President Jacob Zuma to #paybackthemoney, and were forcibly removed from the House for their troubles. Aaisha Dadi Patel rounded up what went down, while Khadija Patel scolded the president for his lack of leadership. Spare a thought for the South African citizens who had hoped Zuma s address would speak to their concerns.Don t miss While our leaders fiddled in Parliament, campuses around the country are being rocked by protests. We found out what s going on at the Durban University of Technology and students shared why they perceive a strike as their only way forward. At Buffalo City College in East London, management and the SRC are now playing nicely but details of the deal they struck are still unclear.Toon of the week: ANC afraid EFF will throw their hats at themSure, this cartoon is a couple of weeks old, but we re celebrating the fact that our resident cartoonist, Nathi Ngubane, is also a psychic.Weekend special After a hectic week of hard news, we suggest you find some light reading for the weekend, and Cyan Cinema s serialised fiction, I Will Tell You Everything is sure to hit the spot (We re not not saying which spot; this story is X-rated after all.)The week ahead We ll continue to follow the fallout from Sona and the countrywide battle between students and universities over funding. And, in happier news, we ll be cheering on the Proteas as they embark on their World Cup campaign. (The first match is against Zimbabwe and begins at 3am local time on Sunday. Tweet us if you re awake!) If you have tips on these or any other stories you d like to see covered please do share with us.To receive The Daily Vox s Top of the Vox a weekly round-up of our favourite stories curated by assistant editor Theresa Mallinson direct in your inbox every Friday morning, sign up here; you know you want to! You can find previous editions here. &#8211; Featured image: By Safiyyah Patel.